---
title: "My relation to user interface design"
date: "2020-01-02"
---

I worked as a System Administrator and many of my colleagues would refuse to touch the mouse. That's not me however. I prefer to use mouse or a touch pad when it is more convenient. But for some reason I chose to type this in Vim, a command-line based text editor instead of Google Docs, Microsoft Word, Libre Office Write or even my regular coding editor, Visual Studio Code. I wanted the simplicity and focusfor this task. I love the ability to choose the right tool, technology or a method that fits the current purpose. Software user interfaces can be graphical or text-based but hardware such as a keyboard, mouse, joystick and Virtual Reality headset are all examples of input devices for human-machine interaction.

I'm an experienced developer and I work as a full-time software consultant. I've mostly written web applications using different languages and frontend frameworks and style kits. I'm familiar with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React, Bootstrap, Semantic UI, Python, Scala and many others. But I've also written code for data science, games, mobile application and command-line interfaces. I have a wide range of languages that I am familiar with but I'm not a deep expert in any one language. I wouldn't say I have exprience in UI development even though I have been a part of a team that has implemented 10s of interfaces. The ones I have designed myself, never followed a rigorous process and that caused inconsistencies, accessibility issues and frustrated users.

I hope to get experience in systematic, design-driven user interface design. So far, I have worked with designers that define the UI in a professional setting and I find that extremely rewarding as two (or more) people are able to combine their areas of expertise in planning and implementing a user-driven solution that delights and makes people's lives easier. I hate using or even hearing about technology that makes people's lives harder. And often it is just a bad user interface design on an otherwise functionally correct program. Understanding the foundations of User Interface construction will help me bring clarity to my own personal projects, where I don't have a designer to work with. It will also help me by being able to assess different UI options for different purposes, instead of always opting for the one that is most comfortable for me.

On this course, I will use pen and paper for first lo-fi mockups. Then I will move the designs to Figma, which allows for multiple simoultaneous users working in one UI design over a browser-based application and best of all, it's free to use. I expect these designs to then be transformed to beautiful interactions using JavaScript and CSS.
